Edit Dashboard Description (#177)
NASA-IMPACT/veda-docs: nasa-veda-platform/dashboard/index.qmd

---
title: VEDA Dashboard
subtitle: 10 Things to Know About the VEDA Dashboard
aliases:
  - /services/dashboard.html
---

> The VEDA Dashboard is an open-source set of configurable tools and pages that enable you and your team to visualize, analyze, and communicate science data. Learn more about the VEDA Dashboard set of tools below. If you would like to learn more about how to create your own instance of the VEDA Dashboard, visit this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VEDA Dashboard is an open-source set of configurable tools and pages that enable you and your team to visualize, analyze, and communicate science data. 

Learn more about the principles the VEDA Dashboard is designed around below.

If you would like to learn more about how to create your own instance of the VEDA Dashboard, visit the [VEDA UI docs](https://github.com/NASA-IMPACT/veda-ui/blob/main/docs/development/SETUP.md).
```

Was this the page you meant to link to?

How would you describe the content of this page? I changed the sentence above to "the principles the VEDA Dashboard is designed around".

> ### 1. Science teams need to present their research program, findings, and methods and data to their stakeholders, colleagues, and other audiences

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Who needs VEDA Dashboards?

_Science teams need to present their research program, findings, and methods and data to their stakeholders, colleagues, and other audiences_
```

- Modern data-driven science is not only presented through papers, posters, and lectures to fellow scientists and through reports to decision makers, but also through up-to-date interactive online tools and blogs that are available directly to either audience.
Web and cloud platforms can enable scientists to publish contents in these interactive ways.
- Often, science programs will want to put their information into a specific context and make it discoverable via their name, which is also important for credibility and attribution.
- VEDA UI helps science teams combine the two - program-specific websites with interactive data visualization and standardized access.

> ### 2. Visualizing spatio-temporal science data in the browser is still a challenge that off-the-shelf content management systems have not solved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How is VEDA Dashboard different from Content Management Systems?

_Visualizing spatio-temporal science data in the browser is still a challenge that off-the-shelf content management systems have not solved_
```

- In order to include interactive data exploration and analysis tools into sites built with traditional CMS tools, you often need to manually embed third-party services into your website, losing any reference to the original data. 
- Otherwise, you have to rely on a highly customized and expensive service.
- The VEDA Dashboard set of tools allows you to visualize spatio-temporal data assets within your website, maintaining an interoperable reference to the source data. At the same time, it is completely open source, customizable, and comes without a subscription.

> ### 3. We show that, with cloud-optimized data, a platform can enable science workflows AND communicates to stakeholders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Advantages of cloud-native geospatial technologies

_We show that, with cloud-optimized data, a platform can enable science workflows AND communicate to stakeholders_
```

- Data visualization in web interfaces often relies on copies of original data that were prepared for visualization (even scalable visualization services like NASA WorldView rely on statically produced rendered replicas). Linking the visualization back to original source data, as required for (re)producing scientific analysis, is often not possible or requires connecting a lot of dots.
- VEDA visualizes data directly off a single authoritative reference that contains data optimized for visualization as well as direct access, avoiding the issue of missing links between source and rendered data. The data a user sees in VEDA has a direct reference to source data (often via STAC).
Another benefit of dynamic tiling is that users are able to adjust viewing parameters such as color map and value range to focus on, to study details of their interest.

> ### 4. Dashboard features are built and optimized for Earth science data but might be useful in other similar applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Many areas of data-intensive research can benefit from VEDA Dashboard

_Dashboard features are built and optimized for Earth science data but might be useful in other similar applications_
```

- Spatio-temporal data often comes from Earth observations or Earth system models. However, the principle of integrating dynamically rendered data into a website is valuable for many branches of data-intensive science, such as heliophysics or astrophysics

> ### 5. The VEDA Dashboard is completely open-source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The VEDA Dashboard is completely open-source
```

- The code is open and accessible, and the tool itself proliferates the use of open standards and reproducible data access for open science
Community involvement will become important to the long-term success of VEDA

> ### 6. The number of websites that use VEDA UI is growing, each with different content and data, site layouts, and selection of features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What drives the evolution of this software project?

_The number of websites that use VEDA UI is growing, each with different content and data, site layouts, and selection of features_
```

Existing VEDA instances:
- Template
- Earthdata
- Greenhouse Gas Center Portal
- earth.gov
Planned VEDA instances:
- Air Quality Portal

> ### 7. There are a wide variety of potential users of the VEDA Dashboard, although each science team usually narrows down on one or two groups for their instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Who are the target users of VEDA Dashboard?

_There are a wide variety of potential users of the VEDA Dashboard, although each science team usually narrows down on one or two groups for their instance_
```

<Brian’s graphic of different target users>

> ### 8. VEDA UI provides a suite of tools, widgets, and pages for science teams to create their own websites, rather than a replicable white-label website/dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How can I use VEDA UI to power a web presence?

_VEDA UI provides a suite of tools, widgets, and pages for science teams to create their own websites, rather than a replicable white-label website/dashboard_
```

A template instance is provided to show how these tools and widgets could be configured to form a cohesive site that showcases science data.
<Link to VEDA UI component library docs>

> ### 9. Through VEDA's Data Services, utilizing an integrated STAC, a VEDA Dashboard can show data from a variety of sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What data can be integrated into VEDA Dashboard?

_Through VEDA's Data Services, utilizing an integrated STAC, a VEDA Dashboard can show data from a variety of sources_
```
